# Laravel Getting Started Tutorial - Implementation of a simple cms (01)

> Author: douyasi
> Website: http://douyasi.com/category/startlaravel/
> Remarks: This tutorial is implemented under the latest stable version of Laravel v4.2.X. If you have any problems with other different versions, please troubleshoot by yourself.
> This article is the original record of the author, please keep the signature and source for reprinting.

## Preparatory work

### illustrate

The preparatory work here refers to "things that must be completed before implementing this cms project", such as:
**Clarification of requirements**, **Design and implementation of front-end pages**, **Building of framework initialization environment**, **Database model design**, etc.

I won't list them here, these preparatory tasks sometimes take a lot of energy, especially when I complete them by myself.

### System goals and requirements
Let's briefly talk about the main goals and requirements of this simple cms:



```
     1. Foreground article display:
     Articles are categorized and labeled;
     Article types are divided into single page and ordinary articles, and some other models, such as pictures and software, will be expanded later.
     2. Background article management:
     Realize adding, deleting, modifying and checking articles, and articles can be edited using Markdown
     3. User management:
     Realize the management of background users, including the login module
     4. System settings management:
     Realize the setting and configuration of some constant variables of the system
```

The front and back pages used are all designed and coded by myself. The design and implementation of this cms are inspired by [typecho](http://typecho.org/) to a certain extent, and I think [typecho](http:/ /typecho.org/).

### Install the Laravel framework

If you still have doubts or difficulties in installing the `Laravel` framework, it is recommended to read the `Laravel` help manual.

### Initial configuration of Laravel framework

Referring to the official help, we need to modify some configuration files.

> Modify the `/app/config/app.php` file to enable debug:

```php
'debug' => true,
```

> Use `php artisan` to generate the key of 32 applications, enter the following command in the command line terminal:

```bash
     php artisan key:generate
```

> Will generate a 32-bit string configuration item similar to the following in the `/app/config/app.php` file:

```
'key' => 'RDFRcyFo3CulrDUMHmUDDm7CnVlQzIXb',
```

> According to the actual database, modify the database-related configuration items in `/app/config/database.php`:

```php
'mysql' => array(
'driver' => 'mysql',
'host' => 'localhost',
'database' => 'laravel_cmf',
'username' => 'root',
'password' => 'root',
'charset' => 'utf8',
'collation' => 'utf8_unicode_ci',
'prefix' => 'yascms_',
),
```

The preparatory work has been completed. In the next section, we will start to use Artisan and Migrations tools to create database operations.