# Laravel Getting Started Tutorial - A simple cms implementation (02)

> Author: douyasi
> Website: http://douyasi.com/category/startlaravel/
> Remarks: This tutorial is implemented under the latest stable version of Laravel v4.2.X. If you have any problems with other different versions, please troubleshoot by yourself.
> This article is the original record of the author, please keep the signature and source for reprinting.

## build database

The `Laravel` framework comes with database creation and migration tools, and it is very convenient to create or migrate databases using `php artisan`.

Let's briefly talk about the cms database structure.

### Database table structure

Multiple tables are needed to implement this cms. In order to speed up the tutorial, we first put the two most important tables (some extension or related fields may also be omitted) - the management user table `admin` and the article table `article` Take it out and operate it.
 
Other tables, such as article classification table, article label table, system configuration configuration table, etc. will be omitted.

`admin` table:

Field name | Type | Remarks
----- | ----- | -----
id | int | admin user ID (auto-increment)
username | varchar | administrative username, used to log in
password | varchar | admin user password


`article` table:

Field name | Type | Remarks
----- | ----- | -----
id | int | article ID (auto-increment)
title | varchar | article title
content | text | article content
slug | varchar | article slug



### Create a database using Artisan and Migrations

> Enter the following command in the command line terminal:
```bash
php artisan migrate:install
```

After execution, you will find that there are `{prefix}_migrations` tables in the target database, and `{prefix}` corresponds to the table prefix set by your database.

> Then we execute the following statement:
```bash
php artisan migrate:make create_admin_table
php artisan migrate:make create_article_table
```

> After execution, we found that there are more `create_admin_table.php` and `create_article_table.php` files with date and time prefixes under `/app/database/migrations`.

> First open the `create_admin_table.php` file and add the following code:
```php
public function up()
{
Schema::create('admin', function(Blueprint $table)
{
$table->increments('id');
$table->string('username',20)->index();
$table->string('password',60);
$table->softDeletes(); //soft delete
/*Using softDeletes, there will be more timestamp types in the table
'deleted_at' field */
$table->timestamps(); //Timestamp
/*Using timestamps, there will be more timestamp types in the table
'created_at' and 'updated_at' fields */
});
}
public function down()
{
Schema::drop('admin');
}
```
> Open the `create_article_table.php` file and add the following code:
```php
public function up()
{
Schema::create('article', function(Blueprint $table)
{
$table->increments('id');
$table->string('title',120)->index();
$table->text('content');
$table->string('slug',60)->nullable();
$table->softDeletes();
$table->timestamps();
});
}
public function down()
{
Schema::drop('article');
}
```

> After saving, we continue to run the command:
```bash
php artisan migrate
```

> You will be prompted whether to execute this command, enter y and press Enter, and if you see the following, it means that the database has been created successfully.
```bash
*****************************************
* Application In Production! *
*****************************************
Do you really wish to run this command?
Migrated: 2014_10_11_060945_create_admin_table
Migrated: 2014_10_11_061004_create_article_table
```

### Populate with seed database

`Laravel` can simply use the `seed` class to populate the database with test data. All `seed` classes are placed in the `app/database/seeds` directory. You can use any class name you want, but you should respect certain capitalization conventions, like `UserTableSeeder` or something. By default there is already a `DatabaseSeeder` class.

Of course, you can also use Laravel third-party packages or plugins (such as [`way/generators`](https://packagist.org/packages/way/generators), [`fzaninotto/faker`](https://packagist. org/packages/fzaninotto/faker) ) to manage and populate the padding data. I also recommend that you use `generators` and `faker` to fill the database. The serialized article here is located in the `Laravel` introductory tutorial, which is close to the official help manual, so I won’t go into details. For details, please refer to [This blog post tutorial ](http://lvwenhan.com/laravel/398.html).

We manually create two `seeder` files in the `seed` directory, located in `/app/database/seeds/AdminTableSeeder.php` file code:
  
```php
<?php
class AdminTableSeeder extends Seeder {
public function run()
{
DB::table('admin')->delete();
Admin::create(
array(
'username' => 'admin',
'password' => Hash::make('123456'),
'created_at' => date('Y-m-d H:i:s'),
'updated_at' => date('Y-m-d H:i:s'),
//'created_at' => Carbon::now()->toDateTimeString(),
//'updated_at' => Carbon::now()->toDateTimeString(),
/* To use Carbon, you need to register ClassAliases under app/config/app.php*/
));
}
}
```

> Note: The `Carbon` extension package that uses time processing needs to configure Class Aliases in `/app/config/app.php`, otherwise it will not be recognized.
```php
'aliases' => array(
     'App' => 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\App',
     'Artisan' => 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Artisan',
     'Auth' => 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth',
     'Blade' => 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Blade',
     ......,
     'Carbon' => 'Carbon\Carbon',
     ......,
     )
```The file code located in `/app/database/seeds/AdminTableSeeder.php`:

```php
class ArticleTableSeeder extends Seeder {

public function run()
{
DB::table('article')->delete();
Article::create(
array(
'title' => 'Test',
'content' => 'Test Content',
'slug' => 'test',
'created_at' => date('Y-m-d H:i:s'),
'updated_at' => date('Y-m-d H:i:s'),
));
}
}
```

The file code located in `/app/database/seeds/AdminTableSeeder.php`:

```php
<?php
class DatabaseSeeder extends Seeder {
public function run()
{
Eloquent::unguard();
// $this->call('UserTableSeeder');
$this->call('AdminTableSeeder');
$this->command->info('Admin table seeded!');
$this->call('ArticleTableSeeder');
$this->command->info('Article table seeded!');
}
}
```

Ok, let's run the following command on the command line terminal:

```bash
php artisan db:seed
```

As a result, we found that the command line terminal reported an error, which is very good. Many times, following our tutorial according to the script, there will be some accidents. There are a lot of error prompts. The main reason is: `Class 'Admin' not found`. We need to solve this problem, so what is the reason? `Laravel` uses `Eloquent ORM`, and we did not create the corresponding `Admin` and `Article` these two `Eloquent` models.
Next, we refer to `User.php` of `Laravel` itself in the `/app/models/` directory to define the `Eloquent` models of `Admin` and `Article`.

The `/app/models/Admin.php` code is as follows:

```php
<?php
class Admin extends Eloquent {
protected $table = 'admin';
}
```

The `/app/models/Article.php` code is as follows:

```php
<?php
class Article extends Eloquent {
protected $table = 'article';
}
```

Write so much in the model first, and leave it for subsequent expansion.

OK, we execute the `php artisan db:seed` command again and find that it is successful, and the following prompts indicate success!

```bash
*****************************************
* Application In Production! *
*****************************************
Do you really wish to run this command?
Seeded: AdminTableSeeder
Admin table seeded!
Seeded: ArticleTableSeeder
Article table seeded!
```
Open the corresponding data table of the database, and we find that the test data has been added.

So far, we have established the database and added a piece of test data to each table. In the next section, we will start to display the front page, which will involve operations such as routing and controllers.